Tuberculosis (TB) remains a global health challenge, despite commendable efforts to control its incidence and mortality (WHO, 2023). One of the gravest threats to recent progress in TB control is the emergence of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), a form of TB that is resistant to essential first-line combination therapy (Jenkins, 2012). MDR-TB control is a multifaceted challenge due to timely detection through drug susceptibility testing (DST) and ensuring access to quality treatment (Jenkins, 2013). The alarming surge in MDR-TB cases worldwide has emphasized the need to improve our understanding of this drug-resistant strain. 
The Republic of Moldova has borne a disproportionately high burden of MDR-TB cases compared to the rest of the world. Moldova has experienced economic challenges, resulting in a substantial emigration of its population to Europe. This demographic shift, coupled with socioeconomic hardships, has amplified the issue of MDR-TB within the country (Jenkins, 2013). Moreover, it is crucial to recognize the contextual factors that influence the prevalence of MDR-TB as it can inform resource allocation and targeted interventions.      
The purpose of this study was to build a predictive model with the best performance to identify individuals at risk of MDR-TB in Moldova based on demographic and clinical variables. Specifically I investigated the performances of 3 machine learning algorithms: classification tree, random forest and gradient boost machine. I was interested in what variables these models anticipated to be the greatest predictors of developing MDR-TB. 
